Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34-57 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 52-54 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 60-113 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure (3) Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 58-59 Item 9B. Other Information (3) PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 29-31 9, 16-21 Item 11. Executive Compensation 21-41 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 7-9, 42-44 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 20-23, 40-41 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 45-46(4) PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 32-39 60-113 SIGNATURES 40 (1) The information required to be submitted in response to these items is incorporated by reference to the identified portions of the Company s 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. Pages 33 through 113 of the 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders have been filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. (2) The information required to be submitted in response to these items is incorporated by reference to the identified portions of the Company s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 25, 2006, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A. (3) Not applicable. (4) Not including information under Audit and Examination Committee Report. 1 Table of Contents DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS General Wells Fargo Company is a diversified financial services company organized under the laws of Delaware and registered as a bank holding company and financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act). Based on assets of $482 billion at December 31, 2005, we were the fifth largest bank holding company in the United States. When we refer to the Company, we, our and us in this report, we mean Wells Fargo Company and Subsidiaries (consolidated). When we refer to the Parent, we mean Wells Fargo Company. The Company engages in banking and a variety of related financial services businesses. Retail, commercial and corporate banking services are provided through banking stores in Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Other financial services are provided by subsidiaries engaged in various businesses, principally: wholesale banking, mortgage banking, consumer finance, equipment leasing, agricultural finance, commercial finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, insurance agency and brokerage services, computer and data processing services, trust services, investment advisory services, mortgage-backed securities servicing and venture capital investment. In February 2004, the Company completed the consolidation of 19 of its national bank charters into a single national bank charter, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (Wells Fargo Bank). At December 31, 2005, Wells Fargo Bank was the Parent s principal subsidiary with $407 billion in total assets, or 84% of the Company s assets. Wells Fargo Bank is rated Aaa by Moody s Investors Service and is the only U.S. bank to have the highest possible credit rating assigned by Moody s. With the acquisition of certain assets of Strong Financial Corporation at the end of 2004, the Company became one of the top 20 U.S. mutual fund companies, managing $108 billion in mutual funds. Total assets managed or administered (including retail brokerage) by the Company were $880 billion at December 31, 2005. The Company has three operating segments for management reporting purposes: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wells Fargo Financial. The 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders includes financial information and descriptions of these operating segments. The Company had 153,500 active, full-time equivalent team members at December 31, 2005. 2 Table of Contents History and Growth The Company is the product of the merger involving Norwest Corporation and the former Wells Fargo Company, completed on November 2, 1998 (the WFC Merger). On completion of the WFC Merger, Norwest Corporation changed its name to Wells Fargo Company. Norwest Corporation was organized in 1929 under the laws of the State of Delaware. Prior to the WFC Merger, it provided banking services to customers in 16 states and additional financial services through subsidiaries engaged in a variety of businesses including mortgage banking and consumer finance. The former Wells Fargo Company s principal subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., was the successor to the banking portion of the business founded by Henry Wells and William G. Fargo in 1852. That business later operated the westernmost leg of the Pony Express and ran stagecoach lines in the western part of the United States. The California banking business was separated from the express business in 1905, merged in 1960 with American Trust Company, another of the oldest banks in the Western United States, and became Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., a national banking association, in 1968. In April 1996, the former Wells Fargo Company acquired First Interstate Bancorp, a $55 billion bank holding company in a transaction valued at $11 billion. In October 2000, the Company acquired First Security Corporation, a $23 billion bank holding company in a transaction valued at $3 billion. The Company expands its business, in part, by acquiring banking institutions and other companies engaged in activities that are financial in nature. The Company continues to explore opportunities to acquire banking institutions and other financial services companies, and discussions are continually being carried on related to such possible acquisitions. The Company cannot predict whether, or on what terms, such discussions will result in further acquisitions. As a matter of policy, the Company generally does not comment on such discussions or possible acquisitions until a definitive acquisition agreement has been signed. Competition The financial services industry is highly competitive. The Company s subsidiaries compete with financial services providers, such as banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and money market and mutual fund companies. They also face increased competition from nonbank institutions such as brokerage houses and insurance companies, as well as from financial services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these competitors enjoy fewer regulatory constraints and some may have lower cost structures. 3 Table of Contents Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly change the competitive environment in which the Company conducts business. The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties. REGULATION AND SUPERVISION The following discussion, together with Notes 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements included in the 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, sets forth the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries and provides certain information specific to us. This regulatory framework is intended to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole, and not to protect security holders. To the extent that the information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to those provisions. Further, such statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress and state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to us, including changes in interpretation or implementation thereof, could have a material effect on the Company s business. Laws and regulations could restrict our ability to diversify into other areas of financial services, acquire depository institutions, and pay dividends on our capital stock. The Company may also be required to provide financial support to one or more of its subsidiary banks, maintain capital balances in excess of those desired by management, and pay higher deposit insurance premiums as a result of a general deterioration in the financial condition of depository institutions. General Parent Bank Holding Company. As a bank holding company, the Parent is subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board or FRB). Subsidiary Banks. The Company s subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and secondarily by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the FRB. The Company s state-chartered banks are subject to primary federal regulation and examination by the FDIC and, in addition, are regulated and examined by their respective state banking departments. Nonbank Subsidiaries. Many of the Company s nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FRB and other applicable federal and state agencies. The Company s brokerage 4 Table of Contents subsidiaries are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and state securities regulators. The Company s insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by applicable state insurance regulatory agencies. The Company s other nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the federal government and/or the various states in which they conduct business. Parent Bank Holding Company Activities Financial in Nature Requirement. As a bank holding company that has elected to become a financial holding company pursuant to the BHC Act, the Company may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. Financial in nature activities include securities underwriting, dealing and market making, sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, insurance underwriting and agency, merchant banking, and activities that the FRB, in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, determines from time to time to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity or is complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a safety and soundness risk. FRB approval is not required for the Company to acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior FRB approval is required before the Company may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company, bank or savings association. Because the Company is a financial holding company, if any of our subsidiary banks receives a rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (CRA), of less than satisfactory, the Company will be prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better, from engaging in new activities or acquiring companies other than bank holding companies, banks or savings associations, except that the Company could engage in new activities, or acquire companies engaged in activities that are closely related to banking under the BHC Act. In addition, if the FRB finds that any of our subsidiary banks is not well capitalized or well managed, the Company would be required to enter into an agreement with the FRB to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements and which may contain additional limitations or conditions. Until corrected, the Company would not be able to engage in any new activity or acquire companies engaged in activities that are not closely related to banking under the BHC Act without prior FRB approval. If the Company fails to correct any such condition within a prescribed period, the FRB could order the Company to divest of its banking subsidiaries or, in the alternative, to cease engaging in activities other than those closely related to banking under the BHC Act. The Company became a financial holding company effective March 13, 2000. It continues to maintain its status as a bank holding company for purposes of other FRB regulations. 5 Table of Contents Interstate Banking . Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Act (Riegle-Neal Act), a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company not control, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the bank holding company s initial entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount set by the state). The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby creating interstate branches. Banks are also permitted to acquire and to establish new branches in other states where authorized under the laws of those states. Regulatory Approval. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution s record of compliance under the CRA, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. Dividend Restrictions The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary banks and other subsidiaries. A significant source of funds to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock and principal and interest on its debt is dividends from its subsidiaries. Various federal and state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Parent s subsidiary banks and certain other subsidiaries may pay without regulatory approval. For information about the restrictions applicable to the Parent s subsidiary banks, see Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) to Financial Statements included in the 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit the Parent s subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their businesses. The payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The ability of the Parent s subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the future is currently, and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines. Holding Company Structure Transfer of Funds from Subsidiary Banks. The Parent s subsidiary banks are subject to restrictions under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or other items of value from such subsidiaries to the Parent and its nonbank subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called covered 6 Table of Contents transactions. In general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, as well as certain other transactions involving the transfer of value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. Unless an exemption applies, covered transactions by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited to 10% of the subsidiary bank s capital and surplus and, with respect to all covered transactions with affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank s capital and surplus. Also, loans and extensions of credit to affiliates generally are required to be secured in specified amounts. A bank s transactions with its nonbank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm s length terms. Source of Strength. The FRB has a policy that a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide the support. The OCC may order the assessment of the Parent if the capital of one of its national bank subsidiaries were to become impaired. If the Parent failed to pay the assessment within three months, the OCC could order the sale of the Parent s stock in the national bank to cover the deficiency. Capital loans by the Parent to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In addition, in the event of the Parent s bankruptcy, any commitment by the Parent to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. Depositor Preference. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) provides that, in the event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including the Parent, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions. All of the Parent s banks are insured by the FDIC. FDIC-insured depository institutions can be held liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of an FDIC-insured depository institution controlled by the same bank holding company, and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to an FDIC-insured depository institution that is in danger of default and that is controlled by the same bank holding company. Default means generally the appointment of a conservator or receiver. In danger of default means generally the existence of certain conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance. 7 Table of Contents Capital Requirements The Company is subject to regulatory capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB, which are substantially similar to the capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC on depository institutions within their jurisdictions. For information about these capital requirements and guidelines, see Note 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements included in the 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. The FRB may set higher capital requirements for holding companies whose circumstances warrant it. For example, holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. Also, the FRB considers a tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio (deducting all intangibles) and other indications of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or engaging in new activities. FRB, FDIC and OCC rules also require the Company to incorporate market and interest rate risk components into its regulatory capital computations. Under the market risk requirements, capital is allocated to support the amount of market risk related to a financial institution s ongoing trading activities. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision continues to evaluate certain aspects of the proposed New Basel Capital Accord (Basel II). Basel II incorporates three pillars that address (a) capital adequacy, (b) supervisory review, which relates to the computation of capital and internal assessment processes, and (c) market discipline, through increased disclosure requirements. Embodied within these pillars are aspects of risk strategy, measurement and management that relate to credit risk, market risk, and operational risk. Certain proposed approaches by the Basel Committee in Basel II may be considered complex. Federal banking agencies expect that their revised proposal for U.S. implementation of Basel II will be available in mid-2006. Under the revised timeline, the first opportunity for an institution to conduct a parallel run of Basel II with existing Basel I capital requirement calculations would be January 2008. From time to time, the FRB and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) propose changes and amendments to, and issue interpretations of, risk-based capital guidelines and related reporting instructions. Such proposals or interpretations could, if implemented in the future, affect the Company s reported capital ratios and net risk-adjusted assets. As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, the FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions for which they are the primary federal regulator. The standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure 8 Table of Contents and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards. The FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to take prompt corrective action with respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. A depository institution s treatment for purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions will depend upon how its capital levels compare to various capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. Deposit Insurance Assessments Through the Bank Insurance Fund (BIF) and the Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF), the FDIC insures the deposits of the Company s depository institution subsidiaries up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The amount of FDIC assessments paid by a BIF and SAIF member institution is based on its relative risk of default as measured by regulatory capital ratios and other factors. Specifically, the assessment rate is based on the institution s capitalization risk category and supervisory subgroup category. An institution s capitalization risk category is based on the FDIC s determination of whether the institution is well capitalized, adequately capitalized or less than adequately capitalized. An institution s supervisory subgroup category is based on the FDIC s assessment of the financial condition of the institution and the probability that FDIC intervention or other corrective action will be required. The BIF and SAIF assessment rate currently ranges from zero to 27 cents per $100 of domestic deposits. The BIF and SAIF assessment rate for the Company s depository institutions currently is zero. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule on a semi-annual basis. An increase in the assessment rate could have a material adverse effect on the Company s earnings, depending on the amount of the increase. The FDIC is authorized to terminate a depository institution s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the institution s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for one or more of the Company s subsidiary depository institutions could have a material adverse effect on the Company s earnings, depending on the collective size of the particular institutions involved. All FDIC-insured depository institutions must pay an annual assessment to provide funds for the payment of interest on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the authority of the Federal Housing Finance Board. The bonds (commonly referred to as FICO bonds) were issued to capitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. FDIC-insured depository institutions paid approximately 1.4 cents per $100 of BIF-assessable deposits in 2005. The FDIC established the FICO assessment rate effective for the first quarter of 2006 at approximately 1.3 cents annually per $100 of assessable deposits. 9 Table of Contents In December 2005, Congress passed legislation that contained a deposit insurance reform provision. The Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 will merge BIF and SAIF into a new Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF). The legislation also authorized the FDIC to revise the current risk-based assessment system described above. Because the FDIC has not yet proposed these revisions, the Company cannot predict the effect they may have on the Company s business, results of operations or financial condition. Fiscal and Monetary Policies The Company s business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The Company is particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions deposits, and (d) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the FRB may have a material effect on the Company s business, results of operations and financial condition. Privacy Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLB Act), have adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial services companies and conveyed to outside vendors. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) implemented a broad range of corporate governance and accounting measures to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of disclosures under federal securities laws. The Company is subject to Sarbanes-Oxley because it is required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, Sarbanes-Oxley and/or its implementing regulations have established new membership requirements and additional responsibilities for our audit committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between the Company and its outside auditors (including restrictions on the types of non-audit services our auditors may provide to us), imposed additional responsibilities for our 10 Table of Contents external financial statements on our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for our corporate insiders, required our management to evaluate the Company s disclosure controls and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting, and required our auditors to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting. The New York Stock Exchange has imposed a number of new corporate governance requirements as well. Patriot Act The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts. The Patriot Act has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act requires the Company to implement new or revised policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition. Future Legislation Various legislation, including proposals to change substantially the financial institution regulatory system, is from time to time introduced in Congress. This legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, this legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. The Company cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on the Company s business, results of operations or financial condition. 11 Table of Contents RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company has risk. We discuss below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC various risk factors that could cause our financial results and condition to vary significantly from period to period. We refer you to the Regulation and Supervision section of this report for more information about legislative and regulatory risks and to the Financial Review section and Financial Statements and related Notes on pages 33 through 113 of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13 to this report, and incorporated by reference, for more information about credit, interest rate and market risks. Any factor described below or elsewhere in this report or in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, have a material adverse effect on our financial results and condition and on the value of an investment in Wells Fargo. Refer to our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC for material changes from the risk factors described below. In accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we caution you that one or more of these same factors, as well as other factors described in this report and in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, could cause us to fall short of expectations for our future financial and business performance that we express in forward-looking statements in this report and other reports we file with the SEC and in other communications. We make forward-looking statements when we use words such as believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, will, may, can and similar expressions. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements, as actual results may differ significantly from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we do not undertake to update them to reflect changes or events that occur after that date. For example, in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, we make forward-looking statements about: the expected impact of expensing stock options on our 2006 earnings per share; the expected impact of pending and proposed accounting standards, including FASB Staff Position No. 13-a relating to leveraged lease transactions; future credit losses and nonperforming assets, including changes in the amount of nonaccrual loans due to portfolio growth, portfolio seasoning and other factors; future short-term and long-term interest rate levels and their impact on our net interest margin, net income, liquidity and capital; anticipated capital expenditures in 2006; expectations for unfunded credit and equity investment commitments; the expected impact of pending and threatened legal actions on our results of operations and stockholders equity; the anticipated use of proceeds from the issuance of securities; the amount and timing of future contributions to the Cash Balance Plan; the recovery of our investment in variable interest entities; 12 Table of Contents future reclassification to earnings of deferred net gains on derivatives; expected completion dates of pending business combinations and other acquisitions; and the amount of contingent consideration payable in connection with certain acquisitions. Our ability to grow revenue and earnings will suffer if we are unable to cross-sell more products to customers. Selling more products to our customers or cross-selling is the essence of our business model and key to our ability to grow revenue and earnings. Many of our competitors also focus on cross-selling, especially in retail banking and mortgage lending. This can put pressure on us to sell our products at lower prices, reducing our net interest income and revenue from our fee-based products. It could also affect our ability to keep existing customers. New technologies could require us to spend more to modify or adapt our products to attract and retain customers. Increasing our cross-sell ratio or the average number of products sold to existing customers may become more challenging, and we might not attain our goal of selling an average of eight products to each customer. An economic slowdown could reduce demand for our products and services and lead to lower revenue and lower earnings. We earn revenue from interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we sell. When the economy slows, the demand for those products and services can fall, reducing our interest and fee income and our earnings. An economic downturn can also hurt the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, causing us to incur more credit losses than we estimated. Several factors could cause the economy to slow down or even recede, including higher energy costs, higher interest rates, reduced consumer or corporate spending, natural disasters such as hurricane Katrina, terrorist activities, military conflicts, and the normal cyclical nature of the economy. Changes in stock market prices could reduce fee income from our brokerage and asset management businesses. We earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage services. Because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a fall in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. Changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. For more information, refer to Risk Management Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management Market Risk-Equity Markets in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. 13 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities and other assets we hold minus the interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt and other liabilities. Net interest income reflects both our net interest margin the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding and the amount of earning assets we hold. As a result, changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and our earnings. Changes in interest rates up or down could adversely affect our net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the yield curve or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. We hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives. We also rely on the natural hedge that our loan originations and servicing rights can provide. We do not hedge all of our interest rate risk. There is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. For example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as investments. To reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt and take other strategic actions. We may incur losses or expenses when we take such actions. For more information, refer to Risk Management Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management Interest Rate Risk in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. 14 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates could also reduce the value of our mortgage servicing rights and earnings. We have a sizeable portfolio of mortgage servicing rights. A mortgage servicing right (MSR) is the right to service a mortgage loan collect principal, interest, escrow amounts, etc. for a fee. We acquire MSRs when we originate mortgage loans and keep the servicing rights after we sell or securitize the loans or when we purchase the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated by other lenders. We carry MSRs at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value is the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. When interest rates fall, borrowers are more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Each quarter we evaluate our MSRs for impairment based on the difference between carrying amount and fair value at quarter end. If temporary impairment exists, we establish a valuation allowance through a charge to earnings for the amount the carrying amount exceeds fair value. We also evaluate our MSRs for other-than-temporary impairment. If we determine that permanent impairment exists, we will recognize a direct write-down of the carrying value of the MSRs. For more information, refer to Critical Accounting Policies Valuation of Mortgage Servicing Rights and Risk Management Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management Mortgage Banking Interest Rate Risk in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. Higher credit losses could require us to increase our allowance for credit losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money or commit to loan money we incur credit risk, or the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for credit losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio (including unfunded credit commitments). The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable rate loans could see their payments increase. In the absence of offsetting factors such as increased economic activity and higher wages, this could reduce their ability to repay their loans, resulting 15 Table of Contents in our increasing the allowance. We might also increase the allowance because of unexpected events, as we did in third quarter 2005 for hurricane Katrina. Hurricane Katrina has affected our loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. The ultimate impact of the hurricane on us is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the hurricane adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost to us of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other customers. The impact of the hurricane on us may be greater than anticipated. For more information, refer to Critical Accounting Policies Allowance for Credit Losses and Risk Management Credit Risk Management Process in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. Our mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter. We earn revenue from fees we receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations. At the same time, revenue from our MSRs can increase, either through recovery of a previously established valuation allowance or a reduction in the periodic amortization expense. When rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and the value of our MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though they can act as a natural hedge, the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative effect on revenue from an increase in the MSRs valuation allowance is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new loans would accrue over time. From time to time we may use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate risk. We generally do not hedge all of our risk, and the fact that we attempt to hedge any of the risk does not mean we will be successful. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring, and is not a perfect science. We may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates or LIBOR that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. We could incur losses from our hedging activities. There may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. For more information, refer to Risk Management Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management Mortgage Banking Interest Rate Risk in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. 16 Table of Contents Our venture capital business can also be volatile from quarter to quarter. Earnings from our venture capital investments can be volatile and hard to predict and can have a significant effect on our earnings from period to period. When and if we recognize gains can depend on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, the prospects of the companies in which we invest, when these companies go public, the size of our position relative to the public float, and whether we are subject to any resale restrictions. Our venture capital investments could result in significant losses. We assess our private and public equity portfolio at least quarterly for other-than-temporary impairment based on a number of factors, including the then current market value of each investment compared to its carrying value. Our venture capital investments tend to be in technology, telecommunications and other volatile industries, so the value of our public and private equity portfolios can fluctuate widely. If we determine there is other-than-temporary impairment for an investment, we will write-down the carrying value of the investment, resulting in a charge to earnings. The amount of this charge could be significant, especially if under accounting rules we were required previously to write-up the value because of higher market prices. For more information, refer to Risk Management Asset/Liability and Market Risk Management Market Risk-Equity Markets in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for revenue, and federal and state law can limit those dividends. Wells Fargo Company, the parent holding company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. It receives a significant portion of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. We use these dividends to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. Federal and state laws limit the amount of dividends that our bank and some of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay to us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors. For more information, refer to Regulation and Supervision Dividend Restrictions and Holding Company Structure in this report and to Notes 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. 17 Table of Contents Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. Our accounting policies are fundamental to understanding our financial results and condition. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Three of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. For a description of these three policies, refer to Critical Accounting Policies in the Financial Review section of our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial results and condition. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. Acquisitions could reduce our stock price upon announcement and reduce our earnings if we overpay or have difficulty integrating them. We regularly explore opportunities to acquire companies in the financial services industry. We cannot predict the frequency, size or timing of our acquisitions, and we typically do not comment publicly on a possible acquisition until we have signed a definitive agreement. When we do announce an acquisition, our stock price may fall depending on the size of the acquisition and the purchase price. It is also possible that an acquisition could dilute earnings per share. We must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In deciding whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution s record of compliance under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering. Also, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. We might be required to sell banks, branches and/or business units as a condition to receiving regulatory approval. Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run- 18 Table of Contents off), loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise harm our ability to retain customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Time and resources spent on integration may also impair our ability to grow our existing businesses. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. Federal and state regulations can restrict our business, and non-compliance could result in penalties, litigation and damage to our reputation. Our parent company, our subsidiary banks and many of our nonbank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at the federal and/or state levels. This regulation is to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole, not our stockholders. Federal and state regulations can significantly restrict our businesses, and we could be fined or otherwise penalized if we are found to be out of compliance. Recent high-profile corporate scandals and other events have resulted in additional regulations. For example, Sarbanes-Oxley limits the types of non-audit services our outside auditors may provide to us in order to preserve the independence of our auditors from us. If our auditors were found not to be independent of us under SEC rules, we could be required to engage new auditors and file new financial statements and audit reports with the SEC. We could be out of compliance with SEC rules until new financial statements and audit reports were filed, limiting our ability to raise capital and resulting in other adverse consequences. Sarbanes-Oxley also requires our management to evaluate the Company s disclosure controls and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting and requires our auditors to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to disclose, in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC, the existence of any material weaknesses in our internal control. We cannot assure that we will not find one or more material weaknesses as of the end of any given year, nor can we predict the effect on our stock price of disclosure of a material weakness. The Patriot Act, which was enacted in the wake of the September 2001 terrorist attacks, requires us to implement new or revised policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition. A number of states have recently challenged the position of the OCC as the sole regulator of national banks. If these challenges are successful or if Congress acts to give greater effect to state regulation, the impact on us could be significant, not only because of the potential additional restrictions on our businesses but also from having to comply with potentially 50 different sets of regulations. 19 Table of Contents From time to time Congress considers legislation that could significantly change our regulatory environment, potentially increasing our cost of doing business, limiting the activities we may pursue or affecting the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. As an example, our business model depends on sharing information among the family of Wells Fargo businesses to better satisfy our customers needs. Laws that restrict the ability of our companies to share information about customers could limit our ability to cross-sell products and services, reducing our revenue and earnings. For more information, refer to Regulation and Supervision in this report and to Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm in our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. Negative publicity could damage our reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Because we conduct most of our businesses under the Wells Fargo brand, negative public opinion about one business could affect our other businesses. Our bank customers could take their money out of the bank and put it in alternative investments, causing us to lose a lower cost source of funding. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. When customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, we can lose a relatively low cost source of funds, increasing our funding costs and reducing our net interest income. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we rely on the accuracy and completeness of information about our customers, including financial statements and other financial information and reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit, we may assume that a customer s audited financial statements conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We also may rely on the 20 Table of Contents audit report covering those financial statements. If that information is incorrect or incomplete, we may incur credit losses or other charges to earnings. We rely on others to help us with our operations. We rely on outside vendors to provide key components of our business operations such as internet connections and network access. Disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor or any failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes of use could hurt our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise to conduct our business. Financial or operational difficulties of an outside vendor could also hurt our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor s ability to serve us. Federal Reserve Board policies can significantly impact business and economic conditions and our financial results and condition. The Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Its policies determine in large part our cost of funds for lending and investing and the return we earn on those loans and investments, both of which affect our net interest margin. They also can materially affect the value of financial instruments we hold, such as debt securities and MSRs. Its policies also can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in FRB policies are beyond our control and can be hard to predict. Our stock price can be volatile due to other factors. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, in addition to those described above, including: general business and economic conditions; recommendations by securities analysts; new technology used, or services offered, by our competitors; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; changes in government regulations; natural disasters, such as the recent Gulf State hurricanes; and geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. 21 Table of Contents ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET INTEREST INCOME The following table allocates the changes in net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis to changes in either average balances or average rates for both interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the numerous simultaneous volume and rate changes during any period, it is not possible to precisely allocate such changes between volume and rate. For this table, changes that are not solely due to either volume or rate are allocated to these categories in proportion to the percentage changes in average volume and average rate. Year ended December 31 , 2005 over 2004 2004 over 2003 (in millions) Volume Rate Total Volume Rate Total Increase (decrease) in interest income: Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements and other short-term investments $ 22 $ 78 $ 100 $ 1 $ 14 $ 15 Trading assets 3 42 45 (22 ) 11 (11 ) Debt securities available for sale: Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies (6 ) (2 ) (8 ) (5 ) (7 ) (12 ) Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions (9 ) 8 (1 ) 87 (16 ) 71 Mortgage-backed securities: Federal agencies (84 ) (2 ) (86 ) 224 (252 ) (28 ) Private collateralized mortgage obligations 86 17 103 85 (25 ) 60 Other debt securities 45 (15 ) 30 (2 ) (2 ) (4 ) Mortgages held for sale 378 98 476 (1,422 ) 23 (1,399 ) Loans held for sale (240 ) 94 (146 ) 37 4 41 Loans: Commercial and commercial real estate: Commercial 570 533 1,103 123 (151 ) (28 ) Other real estate mortgage 21 280 301 153 (23 ) 130 Real estate construction 142 135 277 41 16 57 Lease financing 10 (17 ) (7 ) 39 39 Consumer: Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage (555 ) 799 244 1,714 (57 ) 1,657 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 658 721 1,379 677 (213 ) 464 Credit card 218 49 267 146 (20 ) 126 Other revolving credit and installment 844 (72 ) 772 333 (24 ) 309 Foreign 212 (63 ) 149 157 (66 ) 91 Other (5 ) 8 3 4 (13 ) (9 ) Total increase (decrease) in interest income 2,310 2,691 5,001 2,370 (801 ) 1,569 Increase (decrease) in interest expense: Deposits: Interest-bearing checking 3 35 38 1 5 6 Market rate and other savings 52 984 1,036 101 32 133 Savings certificates 96 135 231 (50 ) (54 ) (104 ) Other time deposits (32 ) 515 483 58 64 122 Deposits in foreign offices 45 188 233 36 21 57 Short-term borrowings (30 ) 421 391 (44 ) 75 31 Long-term debt (1) 305 924 1,229 283 (122 ) 161 Total increase in interest expense 439 3,202 3,641 385 21 406 Increase (decrease) in net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis $ 1,871 $ (511 ) $ 1,360 $ 1,985 $ (822 ) $ 1,163 (1) Includes guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in Company s subordinated debentures, which were reflected in long-term debt at December 31, 2003, upon adoption of FIN 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46R). 22 Table of Contents LOAN PORTFOLIO Loan concentrations may exist when there are borrowers engaged in similar activities or types of loans extended to a diverse group of borrowers that could cause those borrowers or portfolios to be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions. Our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans to borrowers in the state of California represented approximately 14% of total loans at December 31, 2005, compared with 18%, at the end of 2004. These loans are mostly within the larger metropolitan areas in California, with no single area consisting of more than 3% of our total loans. Changes in real estate values and underlying economic conditions for these areas are monitored continuously within the credit risk management process. Some of our real estate 1-4 family mortgage loans, including first mortgage and home equity products, include an interest-only feature as part of the loan terms. At December 31, 2005, such loans were approximately 26% of total loans, compared with 28% at the end of 2004. Substantially all of these loans are considered to be prime or near prime. We do not offer option adjustable-rate mortgage products, nor do we offer variable-rate mortgage products with fixed payment amounts, commonly referred to within the financial services industry as negative amortizing mortgage loans. REAL ESTATE 1-4 FAMILY MORTGAGE LOANS BY STATE December 31, 2005 Total real Real estate 1-4 Real estate 1-4 estate 1-4 family first family junior family % of total (in millions) mortgage lien mortgage mortgage loans California $22,479 $22,112 $ 44,591 14 % Minnesota 3,188 3,754 6,942 2 Florida 3,818 2,099 5,917 2 Colorado 2,821 2,579 5,400 2 Arizona 2,722 2,462 5,184 2 Texas 3,488 1,366 4,854 2 Washington 2,317 2,225 4,542 1 New York 2,339 1,574 3,913 1 Virginia 2,173 1,597 3,770 1 New Jersey 1,907 1,521 3,428 1 Other 30,516 17,854 48,370 (1) 16 Total $77,768 $59,143 $136,911 44 % (1) Consists of 40 states; no state had loans in excess of $3,299 million, and includes $3,277 million in Government National Mortgage Association early pool buyouts. 23 Table of Contents For purposes of portfolio risk management, we aggregate commercial loans and lease financing according to market segmentation and standard industry codes. These groupings contain a diverse mix of customer relationships throughout our target markets. Loan types and product offerings are carefully underwritten and monitored. Credit policies consider industry risks where appropriate for credit risk management. COMMERCIAL LOANS AND LEASE FINANCING BY INDUSTRY December 31, 2005 Commercial loans % of total (in millions) and lease financing loans Small business direct $ 7,925 2 % Property investment and services 5,567 (1) 2 Agricultural production 5,194 2 Automotive 3,326 1 Financial institutions 3,197 1 Food and beverage 2,896 1 Oil and gas 2,505 1 Industrial equipment 2,373 1 Retailers 2,352 1 Healthcare 1,856 1 Other 29,761 (2) 9 Total $66,952 22 % (1) Includes loans to builders, developers and operators, trusts and title companies. (2) No other single category had loans in excess of $1,733 million. 24 Table of Contents Other real estate and real estate construction loans are diversified in terms of both the state where the property is located and by the type of property securing the loans. The composition of these portfolios was stable throughout 2005 and the distribution is consistent with our target markets and focus on customer relationships. Approximately 20% of other real estate and construction loans are loans to owner-occupants where more than 50% of the property is used in the conduct of their business. The largest group of loans in any one state is 5% of total loans and the largest group of loans secured by one type of property is 3% of total loans. COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE LOANS BY STATE AND PROPERTY TYPE December 31, 2005 Total Other real estate Real estate commercial % of total (in millions) mortgage construction real estate loans By state: California $11,033 $ 4,018 $15,051 5 % Texas 2,764 1,033 3,797 1 Arizona 1,501 1,024 2,525 1 Washington 1,524 515 2,039 1 Colorado 1,370 669 2,039 1 Minnesota 1,262 486 1,748 .5 Oregon 735 307 1,042 .3 Florida 307 660 967 .3 Nevada 615 335 950 .3 Utah 578 340 918 .2 Other 6,856 4,019 10,875 (1) 3.4 Total $28,545 $13,406 $41,951 (2) 14 % By property type: Office buildings $ 7,573 $ 844 $ 8,417 3 % Retail buildings 4,396 1,261 5,657 2 Industrial 4,774 625 5,399 2 Apartments 2,761 995 3,756 1 Land 92 3,213 3,305 1 1-4 family structures 120 3,065 3,185 1 Hotels/motels 1,777 263 2,040 1 1-4 family land 1,640 1,640 .5 Agriculture 1,445 46 1,491 .5 Institutional 866 196 1,062 .3 Other 4,741 1,258 5,999 1.7 Total $28,545 $13,406 $41,951 (2) 14 % (1) Consists of 40 states; no state had loans in excess of $770 million. (2) Includes owner-occupied real estate and construction loans of $9,308 million. 25 Table of Contents ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES December 31 , (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Loan Loan Loan Loan Loan catgry catgry catgry catgry catgry as % as % as % as % as % of total of total of total of total of total loans loans loans loans loans Commercial and commercial real estate: Commercial $ 926 20 % $940 19 % $917 19 % $865 24 % $882 28 % Other real estate mortgage 253 9 298 11 444 11 307 13 276 15 Real estate construction 115 4 46 3 63 3 53 4 86 5 Lease financing 51 2 30 2 40 2 75 2 111 2 Total commercial and commercial real estate 1,345 35 1,314 35 1,464 35 1,300 43 1,355 50 Consumer: Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 229 25 150 31 176 33 104 23 76 18 Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 118 19 104 18 92 15 62 15 43 13 Credit card 508 4 466 4 443 3 386 4 394 4 Other revolving credit and installment 1,060 15 889 11 802 13 597 14 604 14 Total consumer 1,915 63 1,609 64 1,513 64 1,149 56 1,117 49 Foreign 149 2 139 1 95 1 86 1 116 1 Total allocated 3,409 100 % 3,062 100 % 3,072 100 % 2,535 100 % 2,588 100 % Unallocated component of allowance (1) 648 888 819 1,284 1,129 Total $ 4,057 $ 3,950 $3,891 $3,819 $3,717 (1) This amount and any unabsorbed portion of the allocated allowance are also available for any of the above listed loan categories. See Critical Accounting Policies Allowance for Credit Losses and Risk Management Credit Risk Management Process Allowance for Credit Losses in the Financial Review section and Note 6 (Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses) to Financial Statements included in the 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders for a description of the process used by the Company to determine the adequacy and the components (allocated and unallocated) of the allowance for credit losses. 26 Table of Contents PROPERTIES The Company owns its corporate headquarters building in San Francisco, California. The Company also owns administrative facilities in Anchorage, Alaska; Chandler, Phoenix, and Tempe, Arizona; San Francisco, California; Minneapolis and Shoreview, Minnesota; Billings, Montana; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Portland, Oregon; Sioux Falls, South Dakota; and Salt Lake City, Utah. In addition, the Company leases office space for various administrative departments in major locations in Arizona, California, Colorado, Minnesota, Oregon, Texas, and Utah. As of December 31, 2005, the Company provided banking, insurance, investments, mortgage banking and consumer finance through more than 6,200 stores under various types of ownership and leasehold agreements. The Company owns the Wells Fargo Home Mortgage (Home Mortgage) headquarters in Des Moines, Iowa and operations/servicing centers in Springfield, Illinois; Des Moines, Iowa; and Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Company leases administrative space for Home Mortgage in Tempe, Arizona; Riverside and San Bernardino, California; Des Moines, Iowa; Frederick, Maryland; Minneapolis, Minnesota; St. Louis, Missouri; Fort Mill, South Carolina; and all mortgage production offices nationwide. The Company owns the Wells Fargo Financial, Inc. (WFFI) headquarters and two administrative buildings in Des Moines, Iowa, and an operations center in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. The Company leases administrative space for WFFI in Des Moines, Iowa; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Mississauga, Ontario; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Aberdeen, South Dakota; and all store locations. The Company is also a joint venture partner in an office building in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota. For further information with respect to premises and equipment and commitments under noncancelable leases for premises and equipment, refer to Note 7 (Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets) to Financial Statements included in the 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders. 27 Table of Contents MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY The Company s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange. At January 31, 2006, there were 92,112 holders of record of the Company s common stock. REPURCHASES OF COMMON STOCK The following table shows Company repurchases of its common stock for each calendar month in the quarter ended December 31, 2005. Total number of Weighted- shares repurchased Maximum number of Total number average as part of publicly shares that may yet Calendar of shares price paid announced be repurchased under month repurchased (1) per share authorizations (1) the authorizations (2) October 8,077,376 $ 58.56 8,077,376 15,724,288 November 4,189,478 61.51 4,189,478 36,534,810 December 1,348,421 63.26 1,348,421 35,186,389 Total 13,615,275 13,615,275 (1) All shares were repurchased under the authorization covering up to 25 million shares of common stock approved by the Board of Directors and publicly announced by the Company on July 26, 2005. Unless modified or revoked by the Board, the authorization does not expire. (2) On November 15, 2005, the Board authorized the repurchase of an additional 25 million shares of common stock. The Company publicly announced this authorization on the same day. 28 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Years with Name and Company or Company Position Positions Held During the Past Five Years Age Predecessors Howard I. Atkins Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (August 2005 to Present); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (August 2001 to August 2005); Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of New York Life Insurance Company (April 1996 to July 2001) 55 4 Patricia R. Callahan Executive Vice President (Compliance and Risk Management) Executive Vice President (Compliance and Risk Management) (June 2005 to Present); Executive Vice President (Human Resources) (November 1998 to June 2005) 52 28 David A. Hoyt Senior Executive Vice President (Wholesale Banking) Senior Executive Vice President (August 2005 to Present); Group Executive Vice President (Wholesale Banking) (November 1998 to August 2005) 50 24 Richard M. Kovacevich Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (August 2005 to Present); Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (April 2001 to August 2005); President and Chief Executive Officer (November 1998 to April 2001) 62 20 Richard D. Levy Senior Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) Senior Vice President and Controller (September 2002 to Present); Senior Vice President and Controller of New York Life Insurance Company (September 1997 to August 2002) 48 3 Avid Modjtabai Executive Vice President (Human Resources) Executive Vice President (Human Resources) (June 2005 to Present); Executive Vice President (Internet Services) of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (March 2001 to June 2005); Senior Vice President (Consumer Internet Services) (July 1999 to March 2001) 44 12 David J. Munio Executive Vice President (Chief Credit Officer) Executive Vice President (Chief Credit Officer) (November 2001 to Present); Executive Vice President and Deputy Chief Credit Officer of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (September 1999 to November 2001) 61 32 29 Table of Contents Years with Name and Company or Company Position Positions Held During the Past Five Years Age Predecessors Mark C. Oman Senior Executive Vice President (Home and Consumer Finance) Senior Executive Vice President (August 2005 to Present); Group Executive Vice President (Home and Consumer Finance) (September 2002 to August 2005); Group Executive Vice President (Mortgage and Home Equity) (November 1998 to August 2002); Chairman of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, Inc. (formerly known as Norwest Mortgage, Inc.) (February 1997 until the merger with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. in May 2004), Chief Executive Officer (August 1989 to January 2001) 51 26 James M. Strother Executive Vice President and General Counsel (Law and Government Relations) Executive Vice President and General Counsel (January 2004 to Present); Deputy General Counsel (June 2001 to December 2003); General Counsel of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, Inc. (formerly known as Norwest Mortgage, Inc.) (March 1998 to June 2001) 54 19 John G. Stumpf President and Chief Operating Officer (Community Banking) President and Chief Operating Officer (August 2005 to Present); Group Executive Vice President (Community Banking) (July 2002 to August 2005); Group Executive Vice President (Western Banking) (May 2000 to June 2002); Group Executive Vice President (Southwestern Banking) (November 1998 to May 2000) 52 24 Carrie L. Tolstedt Group Executive Vice President (Regional Banking) Group Executive Vice President (Regional Banking) (July 2002 to Present); Group Executive Vice President (California and Border Banking) (January 2001 to June 2002); Regional President of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (Central California Banking) (December 1998 to January 2001) 46 16 There is no family relationship between any of the Company s executive officers or directors. All executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. 30 Table of Contents AUDIT COMMITTEE INFORMATION The Audit and Examination Committee is a standing audit committee of the Board of Directors established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Committee has eight members: J.A. Blanchard III, Lloyd H. Dean, Enrique Hernandez, Jr., Reatha Clark King, Cynthia H. Milligan, Philip J. Quigley, Judith M. Runstad and Susan G. Swenson. Each member is independent, as independence for audit committee members is defined by New York Stock Exchange rules. The Board of Directors has determined, in its business judgment, that each member of the Committee is financially literate, as required by New York Stock Exchange rules, and that J.A. Blanchard III, Lloyd H. Dean, Enrique Hernandez, Jr., Cynthia H. Milligan, Philip J. Quigley and Susan G. Swenson each qualifies as an audit committee financial expert as defined by Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. SEC FILINGS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DOCUMENTS As soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC, the Company s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, are available free at www.wellsfargo.com (select About Wells Fargo, then Investor Relations More, then SEC Filings ). They are also available free on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov. The Company s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for team members (including executive officers), Director Code of Ethics, the Company s corporate governance guidelines, and the charters for the Audit and Examination, Governance and Nominating, Human Resources, Credit, and Finance Committees are available at www.wellsfargo.com (select About Wells Fargo, then Corporate Governance ). This information is also available in print to any stockholder upon written request to the Office of the Secretary, Wells Fargo Company, MAC N9305-173, Wells Fargo Center, Sixth and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479. 31 Table of Contents EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (1) The consolidated financial statements and related notes, the report of independent registered public accounting firm, and supplementary data that appear on pages 33 through 113 of the 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference. (2) Financial Statement Schedules: All schedules are omitted, because they are either not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto. (3) Exhibits: The Company s SEC file number is 001-2979. On and before November 2, 1998, the Company filed documents with the SEC under the name Norwest Corporation. The former Wells Fargo Company filed documents under SEC file number 001-6214. Stockholders may obtain a copy of any of the following exhibits, upon payment of a reasonable fee, by writing to Wells Fargo Company, Office of the Secretary, Wells Fargo Center, N9305-173, Sixth and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479. 32 Table of Contents Exhibit number Description 3(a) Restated Certificate of Incorporation, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 28, 1993. Certificates of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 3, 1995 (authorizing preference stock), Exhibits 3(b) and 3(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998 (changing the Company s name and increasing authorized common and preferred stock, respectively) and Exhibit 3(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2001 (increasing authorized common stock) (b) Certificate of Change of Location of Registered Office and Change of Registered Agent, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1999 (c) Certificate Eliminating the Certificate of Designations for the Company s Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed November 1, 1995 (d) Certificate Eliminating the Certificate of Designations for the Company s 10.24% Cumulative Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 20, 1996 (e) Certificate of Designations for the Company s 1996 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 13, 1996 (f) Certificate of Designations for the Company s 1997 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 21, 1997 (g) Certificate of Designations for the Company s 1998 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 20, 1998 (h) Certificate Eliminating the Certificate of Designations for the Company s Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 21, 1999 (i) Certificate of Designations for the Company s 1999 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 21, 1999 33 Table of Contents 3(j) Certificate of Designations for the Company s 2000 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(o) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2000 (k) Certificate of Designations for the Company s 2001 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 17, 2001 (l) Certificate of Designations for the Company s 2002 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 16, 2002 (m) Certificate of Designations for the Company s 2003 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 15, 2003 (n) Certificate of Designations for the Company s 2004 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(o) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 (o) Certificate of Designations for the Company s 2005 ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 18, 2005 (p) By-Laws, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 30, 2006 4(a) See Exhibits 3(a) through 3(p) (b) The Company agrees to furnish upon request to the Commission a copy of each instrument defining the rights of holders of senior and subordinated debt of the Company 34 Table of Contents 10*(a) Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 2, 2005. Amendment to Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. Forms of Award Term Sheet for grants of restricted share rights, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999. Forms of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for executive officers: for grants on and after February 28, 2006, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 6, 2006; for grants on August 1, 2005, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 1, 2005; for grants in 2004 and on February 22, 2005, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004; for grants after November 2, 1998 through 2003, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998; and for grants on or before November 2, 1998, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 *(b) Long-Term Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the former Wells Fargo s Proxy Statement filed March 14, 1994 *(c) Wells Fargo Bonus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 *(d) Performance-Based Compensation Policy, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 *(e) Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 35 Table of Contents 10*(f) Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. Amendments to Directors Stock Compensation and Deferral Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003, and to Exhibit 10 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. Action to increase amount of formula stock awards payable to non-employee directors effective January 1, 2005, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 31, 2005 *(g) 1990 Director Option Plan for directors of the former Wells Fargo, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the former Wells Fargo s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 *(h) 1987 Director Option Plan for directors of the former Wells Fargo, incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the former Wells Fargo s Proxy Statement filed March 10, 1995, and as further amended by the amendment adopted September 16, 1997, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the former Wells Fargo s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1997 *(i) Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors of the former Norwest, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999. Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective November 1, 2000, filed as paragraph (4) of Exhibit 10(ff) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000. Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 *(j) Directors Stock Deferral Plan for directors of the former Norwest, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999. Amendment to Directors Stock Deferral Plan, effective November 1, 2000, filed as paragraph (5) of Exhibit 10(ff) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000. Amendment to Directors Stock Deferral Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 36 Table of Contents 10*(k) Directors Formula Stock Award Plan for directors of the former Norwest, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1999. Amendment to Directors Formula Stock Award Plan, effective November 1, 2000, filed as paragraph (6) of Exhibit 10(ff) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000. Amendment to Directors Formula Stock Award Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 *(l) Deferral Plan for Directors of the former Wells Fargo, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the former Wells Fargo s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997. Amendment to Deferral Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 *(m) Supplemental 401(k) Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 *(n) Supplemental Cash Balance Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 *(o) Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990. Amendment to Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 *(p) Agreement between the Company and Richard M. Kovacevich dated March 18, 1991, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19(e) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1991. Amendment effective January 1, 1995, to the March 18, 1991 agreement between the Company and Richard M. Kovacevich, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995. Cancellation Agreement, effective February 28, 2006, between the Company and Richard M. Kovacevich, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 6, 2006 *(q) Agreement, dated July 11, 2001, between the Company and Howard I. Atkins, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001 *(r) Agreement between the Company and Mark C. Oman, dated May 7, 1999, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999 37 Table of Contents 10*(s) Form of severance agreement between the Company and Richard M. Kovacevich and Mark C. Oman, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ee) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998. Amendment effective January 1, 1995, to the March 11, 1991, agreement between the Company and Richard M. Kovacevich, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995. Cancellation Agreement, effective December 21, 2005, between the Company and Richard M. Kovacevich, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 22, 2005 *(t) Description of Relocation Program, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(y) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 *(u) Description of Executive Financial Planning Program, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 *(v) PartnerShares Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(x) to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. Amendment to PartnerShares Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 *(w) Agreement, dated July 26, 2002, between the Company and Richard D. Levy, including a description of his executive transfer bonus, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2002 (x) Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractors, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.18 to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed January 4, 2002 (File No. 333-76330) (y) Description of compensation payable to non-employee directors effective January 1, 2005, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 31, 2005 38 Table of Contents 12(a) Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges, filed herewith. The ratios of earnings to fixed charges, including interest on deposits, were 2.51, 3.68, 3.63, 3.13, and 1.79 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The ratios of earnings to fixed charges, excluding interest on deposits, were 4.03, 5.92, 5.76, 4.96, and 2.63 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. (b) Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Dividends, filed herewith. The ratios of earnings to fixed charges and preferred dividends, including interest on deposits, were 2.51, 3.68, 3.62, 3.13, and 1.79 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The ratios of earnings to fixed charges and preferred dividends, excluding interest on deposits, were 4.03, 5.92, 5.74, 4.95, and 2.62 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 13 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, pages 33 through 113, filed herewith 21 Subsidiaries of the Company, filed herewith 23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, filed herewith 24 Powers of Attorney, filed herewith 31(a) Certification of principal executive officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, filed herewith (b) Certification of principal financial officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, filed herewith 32(a) Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and 18 U.S.C. 1350, furnished herewith (b) Certification of Periodic Financial Report by Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and 18 U.S.C. 1350, furnished herewith STATUS OF PRIOR DOCUMENTS The Wells Fargo Company Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, at the time of filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, shall modify and supersede all documents filed prior to January 1, 2005, pursuant to Sections 13, 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (other than Exhibit 99(e) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, containing a description of the Company s common stock) for purposes of any offers or sales of any securities after the date of such filing pursuant to any Registration Statement or Prospectus filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 which incorporates by reference such Annual Report on Form 10-K. 39 Table of Contents SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 9, 2006. WELLS FARGO COMPANY By: /s/ RICHARD M. KOVACEVICH Richard M. Kovacevich Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. By: /s/ HOWARD I. ATKINS Howard I. Atkins Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) March 9, 2006 By: /s/ RICHARD D. LEVY Richard D. Levy Senior Vice President and Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) March 9, 2006 The Directors of Wells Fargo Company listed below have duly executed powers of attorney empowering Philip J. Quigley to sign this document on their behalf. J.A. Blanchard III Richard D. McCormick Lloyd H. Dean Cynthia H. Milligan Susan E. Engel Donald B. Rice Enrique Hernandez, Jr. Judith M. Runstad Robert L. Joss Stephen W. Sanger Reatha Clark King Susan G. Swenson Richard M. Kovacevich Michael W. Wright By: /s/ PHILIP J. QUIGLEY Philip J. Quigley Director and Attorney-in-fact March 9, 2006 40