Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company s business. A discussion of the policies and procedures used to identify, assess and manage certain risks is set forth under the caption Risk Management in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13 of this report. The Company s business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect its business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our businesses could be adversely affected by market fluctuations. Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. In the event of a market downturn, our businesses could be adversely affected in many ways, including those described below. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and, if we were unable to reduce expenses at the same pace, our profit margins would erode. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Market fluctuations and volatility may cause us to incur significant losses in our trading and investment activities. We generally maintain large trading and investment positions in the fixed income, currency, commodity and equity markets. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in those markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of those long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own, i.e., have short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. In addition, we maintain substantial trading positions that can be adversely affected by the level of volatility in the financial markets, i.e., the degree to which trading prices fluctuate over a particular period, in a particular market, regardless of market levels. - 18 - The Company s businesses may be adversely affected by fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. In connection with the Company s dealer and arbitrage activities, including market making in over-the-counter derivative contracts, the Company may be adversely affected by changes in the level or volatility of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds or the level and shape of the yield curve. In addition, when the Company buys or sells a foreign currency or a financial instrument denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars, exposure exists from a net open currency position. Until the position is covered by selling or buying the equivalent amount of the same currency or by entering into a financing arrangement denominated in the same currency, the Company is exposed to a risk that the exchange rate may move against it. The Company is also exposed to equity price risk through making markets in equity securities, distressed debt, equity derivatives as well as specialist activities. The Company may be adversely affected by changes in the level or volatility of equity prices, which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from a particular stock, a basket of stocks or a stock index. Our investment banking revenues may decline in adverse market or economic conditions. Unfavorable financial or economic conditions would likely reduce the number and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, mergers and acquisitions advisory and other services. Our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting fees, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and would therefore be adversely affected by a sustained market downturn. In particular, our results of operations would be adversely affected by a significant reduction in the number or size of mergers and acquisitions transactions. We may generate lower revenues from commissions and asset management fees in a market downturn. A market downturn could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. In addition, because the fees that we charge for managing our clients portfolios are in many cases based on the value of those portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of our clients portfolios or increases the amount of withdrawals would reduce the revenue we receive from our asset management business. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. The policies and procedures we use to identify, assess and manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses are set forth under the caption Risk Management in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13 of this report. We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible by the Company. This information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity, i.e. , ready access to funds, is essential to our businesses. Our sources of liquidity are set forth under the caption Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13 of this report. An inability to raise money in the long-term or short-term debt markets, or to engage in repurchase agreements or securities lending, could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to debt in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect the Company in particular or the financial services industry in general. For example, lenders could develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects if we incurred large trading losses, if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn or if regulatory authorities took significant action against us. Our ability to borrow in the debt markets also could be impaired by factors that are not specific to the Company, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the prospects for the investment banking, securities or financial services industries generally. - 19 - A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position and increase our borrowing costs. The Company s access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of that financing, is dependent on various factors and could be adversely affected by a deterioration of the Company s long- and short-term debt ratings, which are influenced by a number of factors. These include, but are not limited to: material changes in operating margins; earnings trends and volatility; the prudence of funding and liquidity management practices; financial leverage on an absolute basis or relative to peers; the composition of the balance sheet and/or capital structure; geographic and business diversification; and the Company s market share and competitive position in the business segments in which it operates. Material deterioration in any one or a combination of these factors could result in a downgrade of the Company s credit ratings, thus increasing the cost of and/or limiting the availability of unsecured financing. Additionally, a reduction in the Company s credit ratings could also trigger incremental collateral requirements, predominantly in the over-the-counter derivatives market. We are exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by counterparties, customers, borrowers or debt security issuers. The Company is exposed to credit risk in its role as trading counterparty to dealers and customers, as direct lender, as holder of securities and as member of exchanges and clearing organizations. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. The policies and procedures we use to manage credit risk are set forth under the caption Risk Management Credit Risk in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13 of this report. There can be no assurances that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk. Operational risks may disrupt our businesses, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth. Operational risk is the potential for loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external events. This includes, but is not limited to, limitations in the Company s financial systems and controls, deficiencies in legal documentation, non-compliance with the execution of legal, regulatory and fiduciary responsibilities, deficiencies in technology and the risk of loss attributable to operational problems. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. Consequently, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. Litigation, governmental investigations and/or other legal proceedings could adversely affect the company s business. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in litigation, government investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. for a discussion of certain of the legal matters in which we are currently involved. Extensive regulation of our businesses limits our activities and may subject us to significant penalties. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. The Company is subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the United States and in several other jurisdictions in which it operates around the world. These regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Non-compliance with legal and regulatory requirements could have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant reputational harm to the Company, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. See Item 1. Business Regulatory and Compliance Factors Affecting the Company and the Securities Industry for a further discussion of the regulatory environment in which we conduct our businesses. - 20 - The financial services industry is intensely competitive. The Company encounters intense competition in all aspects of the securities business, particularly underwriting, trading and advisory services and competes directly with other securities firms both domestic and foreign many having substantially greater capital and resources and offering a wider range of financial services than does the Company. The Company competes on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We may be adversely affected if our current or potential customers and clients decide to use the financial services of our competitors instead of us. Changes in business, political and/or economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the Company. Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas. Employee misconduct is difficult to detect and prevent and may have an adverse effect on our businesses. In recent years, there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. The inability to hire and retain qualified employees may adversely affect our business. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, we face increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds, for the most highly skilled individuals. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees.