Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. A discussion of the policies and procedures used to identify, assess and manage certain risks is set forth under the caption "Risk Management" in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13 of this report. Our business, financial condition or results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our businesses could be adversely affected by market fluctuations. Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere -15- around the world. In the event of a market downturn, our businesses could be adversely affected in many ways, including those described below. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and, if we were unable to reduce expenses at the same pace, our profit margins would erode. In addition, in the event of extreme market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Market fluctuations and volatility may cause us to incur significant losses in our trading and investment activities. We generally maintain large trading and investment positions in the fixed income, currency, commodity and equity markets. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in those markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of those long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own, i.e., have short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. In addition, we maintain substantial trading positions that can be adversely affected by the level of volatility in the financial markets, i.e., the degree to which trading prices fluctuate over a particular period, in a particular market, regardless of market levels. Our businesses may be adversely affected by fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, and equity and commodity prices. In connection with our dealer and arbitrage activities, including market-making in OTC derivative contracts, we may be adversely affected by changes in the level or volatility of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds or the level and shape of the yield curve. Increasing interest rates may cause a decline in the volume of mortgage origination activity and therefore securitization activity. Declining real estate values could also reduce the level of new mortgage loan originations and securitizations. When we buy or sell a foreign currency or a financial instrument denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars, exposure exists from a net open currency position. Until the position is covered by selling or buying the equivalent amount of the same currency or by entering into a financing arrangement denominated in the same currency, we are exposed to a risk that the exchange rate may move against us. We are also exposed to equity price risk through making markets in equity securities, distressed debt, equity derivatives as well as specialist activities. We may be adversely affected by changes in the level or volatility of equity prices, which affect the value of equity securities or instruments that derive their value from a particular stock, a basket of stocks or a stock index. Additionally we may be exposed to widening credit spreads and/or increasing interest rates which creates a less favorable environment for certain lines of business. Credit spread risk arises from the potential that changes in an issuer's credit rating or credit perception could affect the value of financial instruments. The markets for energy and energy-related commodities are likely to continue to be volatile. Use of standard commodity contracts (many of which constitute derivatives) can create volatility in earnings and may require substantial credit support, some of which may be in the form of cash collateral, increases to which may result in the event of an adverse change to our credit ratings. Wide fluctuations in commodity prices might result from relatively minor changes in the supply or demand for these commodities, market uncertainty and other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters and changes to the legal and regulatory landscape. The current global credit crisis, inventory exposure, and potential counterparty credit exposure, may continue to adversely affect our business and financial results. During 2007, higher interest rates, falling property prices and a significant increase in the number of subprime mortgages originated in 2005 and 2006 contributed to dramatic increases in mortgage delinquencies and defaults in 2007 and anticipated future delinquencies among high-risk, or subprime, borrowers in the United States. The widespread dispersion of credit risk related to mortgage delinquencies and defaults through the securitization of mortgage-backed securities, sales of collateralized debt obligations ("CDOs") and the creation of structured investment vehicles ("SIVs") and the unclear impact on large banks of mortgage-backed securities, CDOs and SIVs caused banks to reduce their loans to each other or make them at higher interest rates. Similarly, the ability of corporations to obtain funds through the issuance of commercial paper or other short-term unsecured sources was negatively impacted. As prices declined and delinquencies increased, investors lost confidence in the rating system for structured products as rating agencies moved to downgrade CDOs and other structured products. In addition, investors lost confidence in commercial paper conduits and SIVs causing concerns over large potential liquidations of AAA collateral. The lack of liquidity and transparency regarding the underlying assets in securitizations, CDOs and SIVs resulted in significant price declines across all mortgage-related products in fiscal 2007. Price declines were further driven by forced sales of assets in order to meet demands by investors for the return of their collateral and collateral calls by lenders. Many banks and institutional investors have also recognized substantial losses as they revalue their CDOs and other mortgage-related assets downward. During the second half of 2007, the economic impact of these problems spread on a global basis and disrupted the broader financial markets. The combination of these events caused a large number of mortgage lenders and some hedge funds to shut down or file for bankruptcy. The deterioration and recognition of substantial exposure through derivatives and policies written by monoline insurers resulted in the downgrade of certain of these monoline insurers. Several of these monoline insurers also reported significant losses. Further downgrades of these monoline insurers or their failure could result in additional significant write-downs at many financial institutions and could have a material adverse effect on the broader financial markets. Financial institutions have entered into large numbers of credit default swaps with counterparties to hedge credit risk. As a result of the global credit crises and the increasingly large numbers of credit defaults, there is a risk that counterparties could fail, shut down, file for bankruptcy or be unable to pay out contracts. The failure of a significant number of counterparties or a counterparty that holds a significant amount of credit default swaps could have a material adverse effect on the broader financial markets. It is difficult to predict how long these conditions will continue, whether they will continue to deteriorate and which of our markets, products and businesses will continue to be adversely affected. As a result, these conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation due to these issues and events. -16- We are an underwriter and market-maker for, residential and commercial mortgages, U.S. agency-backed mortgage products, asset-backed securities and CDOs. We purchase and originate commercial and residential mortgage loans of varying quality. The markets for these instruments remain extremely illiquid and as a result, the valuation of our CDOs and subprime related exposures is complex and involves a comprehensive process, including the use of quantitative modeling and management judgment. Valuation of these exposures will also continue to be impacted by external market factors, including default rates, rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. Our ability to mitigate our exposures by selling or hedging our exposures is also limited by the market environment. Our future results may continue to be materially impacted by the valuation adjustments that we apply to our portfolio of residential and commercial mortgages, other asset-backed securities and CDOs. Long-term power generation purchase contracts without corresponding long-term power sale contracts might expose us to fluctuations in the wholesale power markets and negatively affect our results of operations. We have entered into agreements with certain power generation facilities to purchase all or a substantial portion of their power generation capacity. Where there is a corresponding long-term power sale contract, we have attempted to mitigate risks; however, factors beyond our control, such as natural disasters impacting a particular power generating facility or the viability of our counterparties under such long-term power sale contracts, may cause an adverse impact to our results of operations. To the extent we do not have a corresponding long-term power sale contract in place, we will look to sell all or a portion of the power capacity and other products available from certain generation facilities to the wholesale power markets. These sales are not subject to traditional cost-based regulation, therefore we sell these products at prices determined by the applicable market, which may be adversely impacted by wide fluctuations in commodity prices due to circumstances beyond our control. As a result, we are not guaranteed any particular rate of return on our capital investments in long-term power generation purchase contracts through mandated rates, and our revenues and results of operations depend upon current and forward market prices for power and related products. Our investment banking revenues may decline in adverse market or economic conditions. Unfavorable financial or economic conditions would likely reduce the number and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, mergers and acquisitions advisory and other services. Our investment banking revenues, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting fees, are directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and would therefore be adversely affected by a sustained market downturn. In particular, our results of operations would be adversely affected by a significant reduction in the number or size of mergers and acquisitions transactions. We may generate lower revenues from commissions and asset management fees in a market downturn. A market downturn could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. In addition, because the fees that we charge for managing our clients' portfolios are in many cases based on the value of those portfolios, a market downturn that reduces the value of our clients' portfolios or increases the amount of withdrawals would reduce the revenue we receive from our asset management business. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk. The policies and procedures we use to identify, assess and manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses are set forth under the caption "Risk Management" in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13 of this report. We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage risks may not be fully effective. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Other risk management methods depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. This information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. -17- Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity, i.e., ready access to funds, is essential to our businesses. Our sources of liquidity are set forth under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity, Funding and Capital" in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13 of this report. An inability to raise money in the long-term or short-term debt markets, or to engage in repurchase agreements or securities lending, could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to debt in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us in particular or the financial services industry in general. For example, lenders could develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects if we incurred large trading losses, if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn or if regulatory authorities took significant action against us. Our ability to borrow in the debt markets also could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the prospects for the investment banking, securities or financial services industries generally. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position and increase our borrowing costs. Our access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of that financing, is dependent on various factors and could be adversely affected by a deterioration of our long-and short-term debt ratings, which are influenced by a number of factors. These include, but are not limited to: material changes in operating margins; earnings trends and volatility; the prudence of funding and liquidity management practices; financial leverage on an absolute basis or relative to peers; the composition of the balance sheet and/or capital structure; geographic and business diversification; and our market share and competitive position in the business segments in which we operate. Material deterioration in any one or a combination of these factors could result in a downgrade of our credit ratings, thus increasing the cost of and/or limiting the availability of unsecured financing. Additionally, a reduction in our credit ratings could also trigger incremental collateral requirements, predominantly in the OTC derivatives market. As a holding company, The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. is dependent on its subsidiaries for funds. The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. Many of its subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. needs to make payments on obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments. See "Item 1. Business - Regulatory and Compliance Factors Affecting the Company and the Securities Industry". We are exposed to risks resulting from non-performance by counterparties, customers, borrowers or debt security issuers. We are exposed to credit risk in our role as trading counterparty to dealers and customers, as direct lender, as holder of securities and as member of exchanges and clearing organizations. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. The policies and procedures we use to manage credit risk are set forth under the caption "Risk Management - Credit Risk" in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13 of this report. There can be no assurances that these policies and procedures will effectively mitigate our exposure to credit risk. Operational risks may disrupt our businesses, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth. Operational risk is the potential for loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external events. This includes, but is not limited to, limitations in our financial systems and controls, deficiencies in legal documentation, non-compliance with the execution of legal, regulatory and fiduciary responsibilities, deficiencies in technology and the risk of loss attributable to operational problems. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. Consequently, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. -18- Litigation, governmental investigations and/or other legal proceedings could adversely affect our business. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in litigation, government investigations; and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe we have substantial defenses in these matters, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings", for a discussion of certain of the legal matters in which we are currently exposed to. Extensive regulation of our businesses limits our activities and may subject us to significant penalties. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. We are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the U.S. and in the other jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. These regulations are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect the interests of the people and entities participating in these markets. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements. If we were to violate these regulations, we would face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. In addition, non-compliance with these regulations could have a material adverse financial effect or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. See "Item 1. Business - Regulatory and Compliance Factors Affecting the Company and the Securities Industry" for a further discussion of the regulatory environment in which we conduct our business. Our participation in the U.S., Canadian and certain European energy markets subjects us to legal, regulatory and reputational risks. Our energy businesses are subject to extensive and evolving federal, regional, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Intensified scrutiny of the energy markets by governmental agencies and the public has resulted in an increase in compliance standards and regulatory reporting requirements, as well as governmental investigations and audits of energy market participants. An adverse audit or investigation finding may subject to us to substantial fines and penalties and, to the extent publicized, may cause significant reputational harm. We may also incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws, rules and regulations relating to air quality, water quality, waste management, preservation of natural resources, site remediation and health and safety at or associated with our ownership interests in or contractual rights to power generation facilities. We could be required to expend significant amounts of capital for environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, payment of emission fees, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses for these power generation facilities. We are also subject to risks relating to potential disruptions at any of the power generation facilities in which we have ownership rights or may otherwise have contractual rights or obligations. Disruptions may occur for many reasons, each of which may cause harm to our businesses and reputation. Many of these disruptions are outside of our control and include the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines or other equipment or processes, whether caused by failed or improper maintenance, advanced equipment age or natural disasters. A contractual failure of performance by third-party suppliers or service providers, including the failure to obtain and deliver raw materials necessary for the operation of power generation facilities, may also cause disruptions. Where the disruption is due to unforeseen or catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events, we may not have insurance against these risks or, if we carry such insurance, the insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover our losses. Market conditions or other similar disruption factors could also cause a failure to satisfy or obtain waivers under agreements with third parties, including lenders, which impose significant obligations on our subsidiaries that own or otherwise have contractual rights in power generation facilities. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events may prevent the affected facilities from performing under applicable power sales agreements, may impair their operations or financial results and may result in litigation or reputational harm to us. The financial services industry is intensely competitive. We encounter intense competition in all aspects of the securities business, particularly underwriting, trading and advisory services and competes directly with other securities firms - both domestic and foreign - many having substantially greater capital and resources and offering a wider range of financial services than do we. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We may be adversely affected if our current or potential customers and clients decide to use the financial services of our competitors instead of us. Alternative trading systems may adversely affect our business and may increase competition. Securities and futures transactions are now being conducted through the internet and other alternative, non-traditional trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. Some of these alternative trading systems compete with our trading businesses, including our specialist businesses, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. A dramatic increase in computer-based or other electronic trading may adversely affect our commission and trading revenues. Changes in business, political and/or economic conditions could have an adverse effect on us. Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in business, political and economic conditions, including the cost and availability of insurance, due to the threat of future terrorist activity in the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas. We have complemented and may continue to complement our growth through acquisitions and joint ventures, which subject us to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Acquisitions and joint ventures may require significant capital resources, divert management's attention from our existing business and may not have the benefits anticipated. Acquisitions and joint ventures also entail inherent risks and challenges, including but not limited to, difficulty with system integration, geographic divergence, language integration and the increasing scope, complexity and diversity of products and operations. Acquisitions and joint ventures could also subject us to contingent or other liabilities unknown to us at the time of the acquisition or joint venture. We may also incur significantly greater expenditures in integrating an acquired business or joint venture than had been initially anticipated. In addition, our inability to retain and integrate key personnel in connection with an acquisition could materially impair the value of an acquired business. Managing reputational risk is paramount to the value of our brand. Our reputation is one of our most important corporate assets, and is critical in attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. -19- Threats to a firm's reputation can come from many sources, including, without limitation, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failing to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures and activities of customers and affiliates. We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding us, our business, employees, customers or affiliates, whether or not true, may result in the loss of customers, employees and investors, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation. Employee misconduct is difficult to detect and prevent and may have an adverse effect on our business. In recent years, there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we must take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. The inability to hire and retain qualified employees may adversely affect our businesses. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, we face increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds, for the most highly skilled individuals. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees. Future events may be different from those anticipated by our management's assumptions and estimates, which may cause unexpected losses in the future. Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required to use certain estimates in preparing our financial statements, including accounting estimates to determine reserves related to future litigation and the fair value of our financial instruments, among other items. For certain of our financial instruments, including distressed debt, non-performing mortgage-related assets, certain mortgage-backed securities and residual interests, Chapter 13 and other credit card receivables from individuals, and complex and exotic derivative structures, the fair value can only be determined based upon internally developed models or methodologies utilizing significant inputs that are generally less readily observable from objective sources. Should our determined values for such items prove substantially inaccurate, we may experience unexpected losses that could be material.